Our text for discussion today,
here at Matthew 6:33,
contains two parts.
The first part is what we have to do;
it says:
“Keep on, then, seeking first the Kingdom
and his righteousness.”
The second part is what Jehovah will do:
“And all these other things
will be added to you.”
We think carefully about these words.
Jesus actually was educating his disciples
to make a dramatic change
in their lifestyle.
What do we mean by that?
Well, look at verse 31.
He says: “So never be anxious and say,
“‘What are we to eat?’
or, ‘What are we to drink?’
or, ‘What are we to wear?’”
Did Jesus say never?
Yes!
But those are the things we normally do.
We are anxious about our existence,
and Jesus recognizes
that most people are that way.
He says in verse 32:
“For all these are the things
the nations are eagerly pursuing.”
But then he says:
“Your heavenly Father knows
that you need all these things.”
Here in this chapter,
Jesus outlines a number
of very important principles
that actually change the way we look at life
and the way we see our existence
in relationship to Jehovah God.
He puts service to Jehovah
in the first place,
regardless of our circumstances.
Let us have a look
at two of these principles.
The one that’s here
at Matthew 6:24,
he says:
“No one can slave for two masters;
“for either he will hate the one
and love the other,
“or he will stick to the one
and despise the other.
“You cannot slave
for God and for Riches.”
It is just not possible.
Some have tried, but they’ve failed.
Satan approached Jesus and said to him:
‘I will give you riches.
I’ll give you all the kingdoms
of the world and their glory.’
Of course, Jesus refused.
Why?
Because he knew
there was a price attached to it.
What is the price?
Worship
—divided worship—
which is impossible.
He knew that it is impossible
to worship both Jehovah and Riches.
In verse 21, Jesus says:
“For where your treasure is,
there your heart will be also.”
The second principle is in verse 25:
“On this account I say to you:
“Stop being anxious about your lives
“as to what you will eat
or what you will drink,
or about your bodies
as to what you will wear.”
And here is the principle:
“Does not life mean more than food
and the body [more] than clothing?”
You can have a storehouse full of food;
if you don’t have life, you cannot eat it.
You can have a warehouse full of clothes;
but if there’s no body, you cannot wear it.
Jesus illustrated this principle
beautifully in Luke.
Turn to Luke
chapter 12
and from verse 16:
“With that he told them an illustration,
saying:
“‘The land of a rich man produced well.
“‘So he began reasoning within himself,
“‘“What should I do now
that I have nowhere to gather my crops?”
“‘Then he said, “I will do this:
“‘“I will tear down my storehouses
and build bigger ones,
“‘“and there I will gather
all my grain and all my goods,
“‘“and I will say to myself:
“‘“‘You have many good things
stored up for many years;
“‘“‘take it easy, eat,
drink, enjoy yourself.’”
“‘But God said to him,
“‘“Unreasonable one,
“‘“this night they are demanding
your life from you.
“‘“Who, then, is to have
the things you stored up?”
“‘So it goes with the man
who stores up treasure for himself
but is not rich toward God.’”
Jesus didn’t say this man was dishonest
or that he’d never thought about God.
The mistake the man made was
that his priorities were wrong.
He focused primarily on amassing wealth.
He did not do what it says in verse 21.
He did not store up treasure for himself—
He ‘stored up treasure for himself,’
but did not store up treasure
with God in heaven.
He was “not rich toward God.”
And that is the key element, isn’t it?
Our service to Jehovah God,
our life for Jehovah,
that is the key element.
And as Jesus says in verse 15,
the second part of verse 15:
“Because even when a person
has an abundance,
“his life does not result
from the things he possesses.”
So these are
the two very important principles
we’ve covered.
First of all,
make our service to God a priority
and not amassing wealth.
And the second one:
“Keep on, then,
seeking first the Kingdom
“and [God’s] righteousness,
and all these other things
will be added to you.”
We do not know precisely
when the end will come,
but we want to keep on
seeking first the Kingdom.
Rather than putting our trust
in the securities of this world,
we want to put our trust
in our heavenly Father.
Jehovah gives everything;
he gives more than what we need.
In Ecclesiastes 5:19,
it summarizes this whole principle.
It establishes the truth
—the reality of the matter.
It says, Ecclesiastes 5:19:
“Also, when the true God
gives a man riches
“and material possessions
“along with the ability to enjoy them,
“he should take his reward
“and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.”